This directory contains some useful files and scripts
for use with Radiator. All are offered as-is and unsupported

README
	This file

simple.cfg
	A very simple radius configuration file that you can use to
	get started with. It listens to a all clients (with the secret
	"mysecret", the same one radpwtst uses by default), and
	handles all relams with a flat file user database. This is 
	the most conventional way to set up a Radiator configuration.

radius.cfg
	A slightly more advanced config file that shows how to set up
	a Client clause for each client.

handlers.cfg
	Example showing how you can use Handler instead of Realm
	to solve difficult authentication problems: requests can
	be grouped by _any_ attribute(s) in the request, not just the realm.
	

AuthCOMPAT.pm
	An add-on module contributed by 
	Aaron Nabil (nabil@spiritone.com), which provides "exact"
	Livingston user file conpatibility, especially in the area
	of Password="UNIX".

AuthDBUNIX.pm
	An add-on module contributed by 
	Aaron Nabil (nabil@spiritone.com).
	Authenticates from the system maintained DBM password
	file on Digital UNIX on an Alpha.

AuthSQLExt.pm
	An add-on module contributed by
	Lars Marowsky-BrÅÈe <lmb@pointer.teuto.de>
	that provides an extended syntax for SQL select statements.
	Note: this is now obsolete, as the additional syntax for
	AuthColumnDef has been added to AutSQL.pm as part of the 
	core distribution.
	
ansiCreate.sql 
	Simple SQL script for creating tables for a very simple
	SQL database for use with Radiator. Can be used with Oracle
	and other similar ANSI SQL compatible databases. The tables it
	creates are about the simplest ones you can possibly have, and
	much more complicated ones are possible, depending on your
	requirements. You should take it a starting point only. On
	Oracle, you can use this with something like: % sqlplus
	username/password@sid @ansiCreate.

livingCompat.cfg
	This is a simple Radiator config file that allows you
	to continue using a bog standard Livingston or
	similar users file with Radiator, It implements the
	Auth-Type="System" check item by using AuthBy UNIX
	
msqlCreate.sql
	Similar to ansiCreate.sql, but for use with mSQL or mysql.
	Use it like this:
	% msqladmin create radius
	% msql radius <msqlCreate.sql

reports
	A collection of some scripts for generating reports that were
	distributed on the radius-users mailing list. They are
	supplied as-is, and have not been tested or converted to use
	with Radiator. They may or may not do anything useful.

sybaseCreate.sql
	Similar to ansiCreate.sql, but for Sybase. Use it something
	like this:
	% isql -Uusername -Ppassword -Sserver -i sybaseCreate.sql

checkrad.pl
	Simple script that can interrogate various types of NAS
	to determine whether a user is really still logged in
	to a port. This was freely distributed and is not subject to 
	Copyright by Open System Consultants

restartWrapper
	Script you can use on Unix to restart your radiusd (or
	any other program) if it stops unexpectedly. Can optionally
	email you when it restarts. Try restartWrapper -h for help
	on how to run it.

emerald.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file to work with the Emerald
	billing system from IEA (see http://www.emerald.iea.com).
	If you have Emerald 4 or later, see emerald4.cfg instead.

platypus.cfg
	OBSOLETE: see platypus7.cfg.
	Example Radiator configuration file to work with the Platypus
	billing system from Boardtown (see http://www.boardtown.com)

platypus7.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file to work with the Platypus 7
	billing system from Boardtown (see http://www.boardtown.com)

common-sql.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file that allows you to
 	authenticate from an SQL database, and to apply the same 
	check and reply items for all users without having the 
	items in the database

warehouse
	Contributed script (with explanation and mail headers) for a program
	that takes data out of the
	accounting table and fetches them into a data warehouse, processing them
	on the way.
	Contributed by Stephan Forseilles <sf@staff.skynet.be>

extendedMacros.patch
	Contributed patch from "Bonis, Wim" <bonis@kiss.de>.
	The patch allows you to have special replacements like:
	%{attr,integer}      The value of the named attribute as 
		Integer (as in the dictionary)
	%{attr,NULL}         The value of the named attribute as
		String (But NULL if it is empty/missing)
	%{attr,integerNULL}  The value of the named attribute as 
	Integer (as in the dictionary, But null if it is missing)
	%{attr,integer-date} The value of the named attribute as 
		Integer-Date

AddToReplyIfNotExist.patch
	Patch to version 2.12 that adds AddToReplyIfNotExist,
	which allows you add attributes to a reply if they dont
	already exist (a kind of combination of AddToReply and 
	DefaultReply) 
	Contributed by Vincent Gillet <vgi@oleane.net>.

checkSessionDb.txt
	Script that asynchronously checks that the Session Database is up to 
	date by checking it against the NAS. 
	Contributed by Wim Bonis <bonis@argus.kiss.de>. Wim says:
	I have here a perl-script which does that here. It is Run at our location
	every 10 minutes.
	It works here with Livingston Portmasters and SessSQL (There is some
	specific code for my Sesseion Tables in it, but someone can maybe make
	them more general (But then we must have a new "DeleteQuery"))


wimsComplexConfig.txt
	A complex configuration setup that exercises many Radiator
	features. As used in a real ISP, It shows:
	- How to seperate Auth,Roam and Accounting- Request  by using 
	different Handlers
	- How to use the Call-Check feature of Portmasters3
	- How to make a guest logon on only some ports. (In combination with
	callcheck, make only one or two modems available for guest access)
	- Use the hints from the NAS to send different replys, depending 
	if the users want a PPP-Session or a terminal.
	- Use a Accounting table where start and stops for the same 
	session are in just one row, and store many interesting values.
	- Use of crypted or not crypted password in the same Table
	- Dynamic reply by the use of SQL Statements
	- Included is also the definition of the tables.
	Contributed by Wim Bonis <bonis@argus.kiss.de>. 

interbiller.cfg
	Example configuration file that works with Interbiller
	(www.interbiller.com), an inexpensive ISP billing package, which
	runs on Win95 and NT, and uses Microsoft Access.

ciscoConfig.txt
	Cisco document that describes how Cisco support the 
	Ascend RADIUS Extensions at IOS 11.3

proxy.cfg
	An example of a simple configuration that will proxy
	one realm to another radius server, and handle all
	other realms locally.

freeside.cfg sqlradacct.pl
	Example of how to configure Radiator to work with Freeside
	a free unix based ISP billing package. CAUTION: freeside.cfg is now
	deprecated: recent versions of Freeside come with a hook that maintains the 
	Radiator standard RADUSERS table. You should use that instead. You
	should now only need to use sqlradacct.pl.

nasclear.cgi
	CGI script that shows all the unique NASs in your SQL session
	database, and allows you to clear all session for a NAS.
	Contributed by Aaron Holtz <aholtz@bright.net>
	Thanks Aaron.

rodopi.cfg
	Example config for connecting to a Rodopi ISP
	billing package (www.rodopi.com)

annex.cfg
	Example config file for doing Tunnelling with Bay Annex Server

nt.cfg	
	Simple example showing how to authenticate from NT

bsdi-memory.txt
	Detailed instructions on how to increase the default data size
	on BSDI, contributed by Paul Thornton <paul@dove.mtx.net.au>.
	Thanks Paul.

interbaseCreate.sql
	SQL script to create typical database for Interbase.
	Note that unlike other example database schemas, in 
	Interbase PASSWORD is called PASS_WORD, and
	MESSAGE is called MESSAGE_TEXT.
	You will have to change your AuthSelect as required.
	If you are using Log SQL with Interbase, you
	will have to alter LogSQL.pm, and change MESSAGE to 
	MESSAGE_TEXT near the end

SqlDbINTERBASE.pm  ****OBSOLETE*****
	Trial replacement for SqlDb.pm that works with Interbase
	instead of DBI. Use this if you want to use Interbase.
	Requires the ibperl module tpo bne compiled and installed
	DBSource should be set like this
	DBSource hostname:databasepath
	NOTE: this is nom obsolete, now that there is a DBD-Interbase
	available from CPAN. More details in the Radiator reference manual.

sql.cfg
	Sample Radiator configuration file that allows you to
	authenticate from an SQL database.

external.cfg
	Sample Radiator configuration file that allows you to
	authenticate from an external program (testcommand.pl
	which is also supplied)

ldap.cfg
	Sample Radiator config file for authenticating from
	a local LDAP database

ldap-sasl.cfg
	Sample Radiator config file for authenticating from
	a local LDAP database, using SASL to authenticate the
	connection to the LDAP server.

radmin.cfg
	Sample Radiator config file for authenticating from
	RAdmin, the Radius User Admin tool from Open System
	Consultants (http://www.open.com.au/radmin).

bayPortLimit.txt
	Description of how to set up AuthBy PORTLIMITCHECK
	with Bay 5399/8000 for pre-authorizing users. ie
	you can make your Bay only answer a call 
	if the ports are not oversubscribed. Contributed
	by Andrew Foster <anfoster@nortelnetworks.com>

usradius.cfg
	Example configuration file to do authentication and
	accounting with a USR Total Control MS-Access database

radius.mdb
	Example Microsoft Access database. Works with the example
	sql.cfg in this directory. Also includes some example
	queries and charts, that you could extend to suit your own 
	needs.
	Caution: MS-Access is not a high
	performance database and should not be used with Radiator in
	performance critical applications.

kerberos.txt
	Description from Roland Hofmann (hofmann@uni-hohenheim.de  )
	about how to add AFS Kerberos authentication to Radiator.
	Thanks to Roland for his contribution.

radacctSorted.cgi
	An alternative version of radacct.cgi that supports
	some sorting of users by time, logins, total octets in or out.
	Contributed by Andrew Aken. Thanks Andrew.

radiatorctl
	Small Radiator management tool contributed by 
	Ragnar Kurm <ragnar@uninet.ee>. Implements start, stop
	restart, reload, inc, dec operations. Thanks Ragnar.

msisdn.hook	
	An example PreAuthHook that allows you to authenticate
	using Calling-Station-Id instead of User-Name. In fact
	it converts the Calling-Station-Id into User-Name, so
	your user database entries can be against the users MSISDN
	Contributed by 
	Aurelien Requiem <ext-aurelien.requiem@nokia.com>
	Thanks Aurelien.

users.ldif
	Example LDIF file for Open LDAP that we use for testing LDAP.
	UMich. Use it with 
	You can use it with something like
	ldapadd -x -D "cn=Manager, dc=my-domain, dc=com" -w secret -f goodies/users.ldif
	On linux, you may need to make some adjustments to your LDAP slapd 
	configuration before the ldapadd will work:
	you will need to set the manager secret in /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
	you may also need to change the ownership of 
	/var/lib/ldap to the user 'ldap'
	before starting slapd. Make sure the organisation name
	and country agree with the prefix configured into your
	slapd.conf

opendirectory.cfg
	Example config file for authenticating from the
	Open Directory LDAP server from Platinum. www.platinum.com

cisco5300.txt
	Sample PreClientHook that translates Cisco-NAS-Port attributes
	into more sensible NAS-Port numbers. 
	Contributed by "Raju M. Daryanani" <raju@asiainter.net>

profiles.txt
	Example of how you can implement user profiles using
	chained AuthBy modules and the new (at 2.16) check
	items that refer to the current reply

hooks.txt 
	Discussion and examples of how to use hooks to provide:
	- User profiles stored in a text file
	- Translating Cisco-NAS-Port into NAS-Port for
	interoperation with Cisco 5800
	- Remove selected attributues from a request before logging
	- Extract special Cisco format NAS-Port information
	- parse multiple Digest-Attributes into individual attributes
	which are added to the incoming request. 
	- discover the socket that received a request on a multihomed host
	- change the Trace level dynamically based on current request
        - many other examples

addressallocator.txt
	Sample config file showing how to use the new IP address
	allocation modules to allocate addresses from an SQL database

addressallocatordhcp.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to allocate adddreses for
	incoming request from an external DHCP server.

reliableaccounting.cfg
	Example configuration file shows how you can proxy
	requests to remote radius server, and if the remote radius server
	does not reply (say, its offline, or the network is down)
	save the accounting data in an SQL database, for later
	delivery or retransmission

csid.cfg CalledStationId.pm
	Example of how to use superclassing and registering the find function
	in order to add new types of Handlers. The example implments a new
	<CalledStationId 11111> clause that finds an exact match for a
	Called-Station-Id faster that the linear search that a
	<Handler Called-Station-Id=11111> would take.

loststophook.cfg
	Extract from a sample config file contributed by 
	Fabrizio Cuseo <f.cuseo@panservice.it>:

I'm using a national roaming service with a proxy radius that forwards
me all @domain.it requests.  Sometimes their access-servers or radius,
don't send me the STOP accounting record, so i often have dead
sessions on my radonline db.  When the user tries to authenticate
again, it reaches his MaxSession of 1, and i've no snmp access on the
access-servers, so i've modified my radonline db adding a
"calling_station_id", and I also have this PreAuthHook that deletes
this kind of dead sessions only if calling_station_id on the radonline
db is the same of the radius auth request.  I'm using a mysql
db... 

AuthPLSQL.pm plsql.cfg
	Contributed authentication module and sample config file
	that can use Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures to do 
	authentication. Contributed by Pavel A. Crasotin <pavel@ctk.ru>
	Thanks Pavel.

millisecondlog.txt
	Simple changs to Log.pm so that messages are logged with 
	a millisecond resolution. Contributed by 
	Anton Sparrius <asparrius@vivanet.com.au>

hydrarad
	Script for generating HydraWeb usability figures
	by sending Status-Server request to Radiator. Produces
	a Usability figure (0 to 100) as an exponential function
	of current requests per second.
	See www.hydraweb.com
	Stop Press: hydraweb have since failed and HydraRADIUS
	is no longer available. This information will be removed
	in a future version.

authlog.cfg
	Simple configuration file showing how to use AuthLog
	to log authentication success and failure to a file
	using <AuthLog FILE>

blocktime.txt
	Discussion about how to implement block times (prepaid
	time)

ibm-snmp.txt
	Some hints about using SNMP on IBM without access to 
	snmpwalk.

tnt-pap.txt
	Discussion about how to configure PAP on a TNT by Radius.
	Contributed by Aaron Bailey <abailey@comtech.com.au>

platradacct.cgi
	Version of radacct.cgi that works with Platypus Calls table.
	Contributed by "Leigh Spiegel" <leigh@winshop.com.au>

cleanup.txt
	"Steve Roderick" <steve@uspops.com> has contributed this script
	to sync the session database to what is actually on the NAS(s).
	 The code is set up for CVXen, but is easily modified.

AuthSQLRadius.pm
	"Steve Roderick" <steve@uspops.com> contributed this module 
	which loads proxy Radius server details from an SQL database.

proxyalgorithm.cfg
	Example Radiator config file that shows various ways
	of configuring proxying to multiple remote servers
	using AuthBy RADIUS,
	AuthBy ROUNDROBIN, AuthBy VOLUMEBALANCE and
	AuthBy LOADBALANCE.

optigold.cfg
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to 
	work with Optigold ISP (www.digitalpoint.com)

opie.cfg
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to
	authenticate from OPIE (one-time passwords in everything)

opie.txt
	Detailed instructions for installing and configuring OPIE
	on RedHat 7.3 for use with FW-1. Contributed by 
	"Mark Wellins" (markw@checkpoint.com)

ad-ldap.cfg 
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to
	authenticate from a Windows 2000 Active Directory server
	through LDAP either from Windows or Unix.

securid.cfg
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to
	authenticate by proxying to an RSASecurity ACE/Server 
	radius server.

linux-*, users Sample config file, users file and startup file for Linux
	See radiusd.conf for alrternate startup script for Debian/Ubuntu

system.cfg
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to
	authenticate with AuthBy SYSTEM.

teleid, teleid.cfg
	Sample config file and instructions to allow Radiator to
	authenticate from Encotone TeleID token cards
	with AuthBy PAM.

asplog.txt
	How to display Radiator SQL accounting logs with an ASP/VB
	script. Contributed by "Michael Audet" <audet@vectorcore.com>
	Thanks Michael!

prepaid.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to
	implement a simple prepaid card system with an SQL database

ace.txt ace.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file and instructions
	showing how to authenticate directly to an RSA SecurID ACE Server.

pam-kerberos.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to authenticate
	from Kerberos via PAM on Unix

billmax.txt billmax.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file and instructions
	showing how to authenticate directly to BillMax Unix ISP
	billing software.

sqlradius.cfg
	Example config file showing how you can use AuthBy SQLRADIUS
	to look up proxy hosts in an SQL database. Great for
	managing large numbers of downstream ISPs. Uses the user realm
	to make a lookup in an SQL table and find out the target host
	to proxy to. Obsoletes goodies/AuthSQLRadius.pm.

internal.cfg
	Example config file showing how you can use AuthBy INTERNAL
	to handle different types of requests in fixed, parameterised ways.
	See also internalhook.cfg.

highavail.txt
	Discussion of how to use "daemontools" 
	(http://cr.yp.to/daemontools.html) as a way to provide high availablity
	for Radiator.

dbd-csv.txt
	Discussion of how to configure Radiator	
	to use a DBD::CSV database.
	DBD::CSV is a perl DBD module that permits SQL-like access to 
	flat file databases.

internalhook.cfg
	Example config file showing how you can use hooks AuthBy INTERNAL
	to figure out how to reply to each tpe of request based on 
	perl hooks.

ddprof.pm
	Radiator profiling code contributed by Damir Dzeko <ddzeko@iskon.hr>

safeword.txt SafewordPostAuth.pl SafewordPreAuth.pl
	Description and hooks for operating with Safeword
	token-based authentication through a firewall.
	Contributed by Stephen Frede (Stephen.Frede@optus.com.au)

voip.txt
	Long discussion about how Cisco VOIP and accounting works
	with examples, contributed by Simon Hackett <simon@internode.com.au>.

statslog.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to get
	started with statistics logging with StatsLog FILE
	and StatsLog SQL

pop3.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to get
	started with POP3 authentication

monitor.cfg 
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to configure
	Radiator for use with Radar and other external monitors.

Apache-AuthenRadius-0.3-digest.patch
	This patch file adds support for Digest authentication over Radius
	to Apache. It is a patch to Apache-AuthenRadius-0.3. Requires
	Apache 1.3 or later, mod_perl and Authen::Radius from RadiusPerl-0.06
	or later. With the patch installed, you can configure an Apache
	.htaccess file like this:

	# authenticate Digest via Radius
	AuthName "Radius Test"
	AuthType Digest
	require valid-user
	PerlAuthenHandler Apache::AuthenRadius
	PerlSetVar Auth_Radius_host localhost
	PerlSetVar Auth_Radius_port 1645
	PerlSetVar Auth_Radius_secret mysecret
	PerlSetVar Auth_Radius_timeout 5

RadiusPerl-0.05-0.06.patch
	This patch to RadiusPerl-0.05 adds correct support for long (> 16)
	passwords, plus uses Digest::MD5, instead of the old MD5.

AdvancedISPBilling.cfg
	Example configuration file for working with 
	"Advanced ISP Billing", see http://www.advancedispbilling.com

emerald4.cfg
	Example configuration file for working with Emerald version 4
	from IEA (see http://www.emerald.iea.com).
	Dont use this one for Platypus or Emerald versions earlier
	then 4.

radimportacct
	Script to import accounting data from a radius accounting detail file
	into an SQL database. Easily configurable to add/change
	the mapping between detail file fields and SQL table columns.

raduseradd
	Script to add users to an SQL database. This is a command line
	utility. You can specify the user parameters on the command line
	else they will be prompted for. Easily configurable to add/change
	the mapping between prompt fields and SQL table columns

eap_tls.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing EAP-TLS authentication.

eap_md5.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing EAP MD5-Challenge authentication.

mobileip.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing 3GPP2 Mobile IP authentication.
	Handles HA Key distribution requests and FA user authentication.

mkcertificate.sh xpextensions
	Script and file for making test certificates for Windows
	XP and EAP-TLS as described in http://www.denobula.com/EAPTLS.pdf

pam.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing PAM authentication on Unix. This example
	authenticates from the PAM 'passwd' service, using your normal Unix
	password. Works on RH 7.n and others. Requires Authen-PAM to be installed.

eap_ttls.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing TTLS authentication. This
	example authenticates the inner authentication request
	locally. Works with TTLS-PAP, TTLS-CHAP, TTLS-MSCHAP,
	TTLS-MSCHAP and TTLS-EAP-MSCHAPv2

eap_ttls_proxy.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing TTLS authentication. This
	example authenticates the inner authentication request by
	proxying to another (non TTLS enabled) Radius server.  Works
	with TTLS-PAP, TTLS-CHAP and TTLS-MSCHAP, TTLS-MSCHAPv2 and
	TTLS-EAP-MSCHAPv2.

eap_peap.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing PEAP authentication.
	This example authenticates an inner MSCHAP-V2 authentication
	request from a users file.

eap_peap_tls.cfg
	Example configuration file for doing PEAP authentication as used by
	Windows XP starting with SP1. 
	This example authenticates EAP-TLS ('Smart card or other Certificate')
	as an inner authentication request.

eap_multi.cfg
	Example configuration file doing multiple types of EAP authentication
	at the same time. Supports PAP, CHAP, MSCHAP, MSCHAPV2, EAP-MD5, TTLS-EAP-MD5,
	TTLS-PAP, TTLS-CHAP, TTLS-MSCHAP, TTLS-MSCHAPV2, TTLS-TLS, TLS, PEAP-MD5
	
url.cfg test_url.cgi test_url_crypt.cgi test_url_md5.cgi test_url_mschapv2.cgi
	Example configuration file and sample CGI scripts for using AuthBy URL.
	This module was contributed by Mauro Crovato <mauro@crovato.com.ar>.

web_monitor.doc web_monitor.tar.gz
	CGI script and documentation for web interface to Radiator Monitor. Allows
	you to inspect configuration and statistics for each Handler in your 
	Radiator servers. Contributed by Mauro Crovato <mauro@crovato.com.ar>.

radwho.cgi
	CGI script for examining who is onine according to an SQL or DBM session database.
	See the Radiator reference manual for details on installation and use.

radacct.cgi
	CGI script for viewing accounting details SQL database or detail file.
	See the Radiator reference manual for details on installation and use.

radconfig
	CGI script for viewing and altering a Radiator configuration file.

rcradiator
	Linux LSB compliant startup script, contributed by Carlos RaÅ˙l Perasso 
	<carlosrp@idea.com.py>. Thanks Carlos.

radwho.pl
	Radiator command line script to summarize "who is online" from 
	 DBM or SQL SessionDatabase. Based on radwho.cgi

dialconnect.cfg
	Example configuration file for Telstra (Australia) Dial
	Connect Virtual ISP (since renamed to IP Remote).

INSTALL.MacOSX RadiatorMacOSX.tar.gz
	Instructions and helpful scripts for installing on MAC OSX, and configuring
	to startup automatically. Contributed by "neil d. quiogue" <neil@quiogue.com>.
	Thanks Neil!
	Caution: these are no obsolete. See macports.txt and Portfile below

xinetd.conf
	Example xinetd configuration file for Linux and similar.

jet.cfg
	Example configuration file for Jet.
	Jet is a user management and billing system, specifically designed and
	created for ISPs.  Written in python and Zope, it is highly flexible,
	and has a modular construction allowing for additional modules to
	support a customers specific needs.  It comes with full source code, and
	Obsidian's development team is available to produce extensions as
	required.

rcrypt
	Simple command line utility to do Rcrypt encryption and decryption of
	passwords.

CiscoDialupIPPools.doc
	document describing how to do basic ip address
	assignment for Cisco dialup using radiator. Contributed by "Kent, Ashley" 
	<akent@ue.com.au>.

imap.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file for use with AuthBy
	IMAP. Shows how to support SSSl and non-SSL connections to the
	IMAP server, and also to support TTLS-PAP.

htgroup.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file for use with AuthBy HTGROUP.
	Contributed by Rodger Allen <rodger@infrasecure.com>

AlterNASPort.pl
	Example hook to convert  Cisco-NAS-Port to NAS-port so you can
	use the standard session database and NasType Cisco.
	Contributed by Paul Pilsbury <ppilsbur@connect.com.au>.

dictionary.cisco dictionary.ascend2 dictionary.livingston dictionary.usr
dictionary.usr.merit dictionary.acc dictionary.redback dictionary.hiper
	These dictionaries from various sources used to be shipped as part of the main distribution.
	Now they are not required any more, as all the attributes have been included in the 
	dictionary file in the main distribution. We are keeping these here just for
	reference. They should not be required in any installations.

sqlclienthook.pl
	sample code showing a way to have a ClientListSQL-like database of clients, but still
	use the file:'filename' style of hooks. Runs a pipe that inserts the <Client> clauses
	into the config file at startup-time. Written by  German Gatica.
	Thanks German.

3com4400.txt
	This document contains some simple instructions to configure a 3Com
	SuperStack 3 4400 Switch (or similar in the same family) and Windows
	XP to demonstrate Radius authentication for 802.1x wired LAN access
	control and accounting.

osx.txt
	Detailed instructions for installing and testing on Mac OS X

eap_anon_hook.pl
	Hook that can be use in EAP-TTLS and EAP-PEAP installations to
	fix accounting requests so that they contain the _real_ user
	name instead of anonymous. See example usage in
	goodies/eap_ttls.cfg, and sample SQL table RADLASTAUTH in
	goodies/mysqlCreate.sql See also eap_acct_username.txt for a
	technique that does not require an SQL database.

windows.cfg
	Sample config file for a standard Windows installation. Designed
	to be installed as c:\Program Files\Radiator\radius.cfg
	
oscaironetconfig.txt
	Sample configuration file for a Cisco Aironet 340 Wireless Acccess Point. This configuration
	file is the one used at OSC for testing EAP wireless-Radius authentication. It works
	with a wide range of client wireless cards and wireless clients. You will
	need to adjust the IP addresses of the radius server, gateway etc to suit your site.

lsa.cfg lsa_eap_peap.cfg lsa_eap_multi.cfg
	Examples showing how to use AuthBy LSA to authenticate PAP, CHAP, MSCHAP, MSCHAPV2,
	PEAP, LEAP etc against Windows user passwords. Can be run on
	Windows 2000, 2003 and XP (not Home edition). 
	Requires the Win32-Lsa perl module from Open System Consultants (download details
	included)

ic-isp.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate from an IC-ISP mySQL database.
	IC-ISP is a full source ISP billing package for Unix.
	See www.ic-isp.com for details about IC-ISP. Accounting is not supported.
	Works with IC-ISP 2.0.24 and later.

logisense.txt
	Example configuration, SQL tables and requirements for interoperation between
	Radiator and ENGAGE*IP. Contributed by STOWE TELECOM, LLC.

tacacsplusserver.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to use the <ServerTACACSPLUS>
	clause to receive and handle TACACS+ requests.

soapradius.cgi soap.cfg soaprequest.wsdl
	Support files for AuthBy SOAP and SOAPRequest.pm
	soapradius.cgi is a web server CGI script that receives SOAP requests and
	dispatches them to SOAPRequest.pm where it is converted to a Radius packet 
	and sent to the Radius server of your choice. Soap.cfg is an example
	configuration file for <AuthBy SOAP>. soaprequest.wsdl is a SOAP web service
	description language description of the SOAP interface.

eap_otp_opie.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP One Time Password
	using AuthBy OPIE and the OPIE one-time-password system. Notes for testing
	with radpwtst.

eap_gtc_opie.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP Generic Token Card
	using AuthBy OPIE and the OPIE one-time-password system. Tested with
	Funk Odyssey client. Notes for testing
	with radpwtst.

eap_peap_gtc_opie.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP PEAP Generic Token Card
	using AuthBy OPIE and the OPIE one-time-password system. Tested with
	Funk Odyssey client.

eap_gtc_ace.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP Generic Token Card
	using AuthBy ACE and the SecurID ACE server token code system. AuthBy ACE will also
	work with EAP PEAP Generic Token Card similar to eap_peap_gtc_opie.cfg.

eap_gtc_rsamobile.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP Generic Token Card
	EAP-PEAP Generic Token Card and conventional Radius Access-Accept/Access-Challenge
	using AuthBy RSAMOBILE and the RSA Mobile authentication system.
	
leap.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP LEAP compatible
	using plaintext passwords and AuthBy FILE.

otp.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to authenticate EAP-OTP, EAP-GTC and 
	standard Radius dialup with your own one-time-passwords, possibly including
	delivery of the password via a back-channel such as SMS.

multiprofile.txt
	Contains a contribution from Matthias Wamser,
	showing how to provide different sets of reply items for
	different types of Dialup DSL services etc.

ipv6.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to answer IPV6 radius requests. Also
	shows how to proxy to a remote Radius server using IPV6. Requires IPv6
	support in Perl core Socket module or Socket6 module.

krb5.cfg
	Example configuration file showing how to use AuthBy
	KRB5. Requires Authen::Krb5 from CPAN.

AuthKrb5Password.pm krb5-password.cfg krb5-password-users
	Contributed authentication module for Kerberos 5 that uses the Authen-Krb5Password
	perl module on CPAN. Includes example config file. Contributed by Shumon Huque.
	Works with Radius-PAP and TTLS-PAP.

mergedetails
	Simple script for merging multiple accounting details files into a single
	file in chronological order.

vlanhooks.txt
	Example hooks for handling multiple downstream authenticators, and NASs with
	incompatible interpretations of Tunnel-Private-Group attributes.
	Contributed by Matthew Gast.

digipass.cfg digipass_eap_peap.cfg digipass_ldap.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration files showing how to
	authenticate using Vasco Digipass tokens from an SQL database or LDAP database.
	Requires the
	Authen-Digipass module (see below). Requires an SQL
	database (see the example table in
	goodies/*.sql). Use the digipass.pl application
	included with the Authen-Digipass add-on module to import
	token data, assign tokens to users etc.

radminDigipass.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to
	authenticate from a RAdmin database that has been configured
	to support Digipass tokens for each user. Requires RAdmin 1.9
	and the	Authen-Digipass module (see below). 

Authen-Digipass-1.10-1.i686.rpm (for perl 5.10, x86)
Authen-Digipass-1.9-1.i686.rpm (for perl 5.8, x86)
Authen-Digipass-1.9-1.x86_64.rpm (for perl 5.8, x64, other platforms) 
Authen-Digipass-1.11-1.el5.x86_64.rpm (for perl 5.8, x64 on Centos 5 and RHEL5)
Authen-Digipass-1.11-1.el6.x86_64.rpm (for perl 5.10, x64 on Centos 6 and RHEL6)
	32 and 64 bit linux RPMs containing the Authen-Digipass module
	required by AuthBy DIGIPASS. Use Authen-Digipass-1.9-1.el5.x86_64.rpm
	on RedHat EL5 64 bit, or if you get crashes with
	Authen-Digipass-1.9-1.x86_64.rpm on other 64 bit Linux platforms.
	Install with
	  rpm -Uvh Authen-Digipass-1.x-1.i686.rpm

OSCAuthDP-sparc.pkg
	Solaris Sparc package file containing prebuilt binary of the
	Authen-Digipass module required by AuthBy SQLDIGIPASS. Requires
	Perl 5.8.5 from Sunfreeware (http://www.sunfreeware.com) and
	Solaris 8 or later.

address-allocator-sql.txt
        Example for configuring AddressAllocator SQL queries for
        environments where multiple Radiator instances allocate
        from the same SQL database.

address-allocator-sp.cfg address-allocator-sp.sql
        Example Radiator configuration file and Oracle stored
        procedure showing how to configure Radiator to rapidly allocate IP
        addresses using an Oracle Stored Procedure.
	Contributed by Andy M.
	
geektools-0_32.tar.gz
	Tool for collection sessiondata from access points and
	making pretty graphs. Contributed by Bret Jordan.

radlog.cgi
	CGI script to view the tail of a Radiator log file. Can be
	helful for helpdesk troubleshooting. Contributed by Mohammad
	Junaid, Cyberia.

multicast.cfg 
	Example configuration file showing how to use AuthBy
	MULTICAST. AuthBy MULTICAST copies some or all requests to
	multiple Radius servers.
	
apache2-radius.txt
	Documentation on how to configure Apache 2 for Radius
	authentication with the mod_auth_radius module. Works with any
	Radiator authentication module including ACE and SQLDIGIPASS.

pam-radius.txt
	Documentation on how to configure PAM to use pam_radius in
	order to authenticate access to Unix commands and services
	through Radiator. Works with static passwords and token based
	authentication such as SecurID and Digipass.

tacacsplustest
	Simple, all-perl TACACS+ command line test client. Does not
	require additional perl modules. Sends authentication,
	authorization and accounting requests. Use tacacsplustest -h
	for help

dbiprofile.txt
	 A brief description of an easy way to obtain
	 performance data about SQL queries run by your Radiator.

rotateacct.pl
	A script to rotate the ACCOUNTING table.  It can run monthly
	from cron. Creates an ACCOUNTINGYYYYMM table every month from a
	template table you have set up -- ACCOUNTING_TMPL.
	Contributed by Ray Van Dolson <rayvd@digitalpath.net>

eap_acct_username.txt
	Sample hook and script for de-anonymizing EAP-TTLS accounting
	requests, and which does not require an SQL database.
	Contributed by Rok Papez, with comments by Roy Badami.

gigawords-hook.pl
	Hook for calculating correct total octets from Gigawords.
	Contributed by Igor Briski, Iskon Internet d.d. who says:
	This is a hook I wrote for our broadband service. It is using
	Acct-Input-Gigawords attribute which contains the number of times the
	Acct-Input-Octets has wrapped. I believe that the
	Unisphere-Output-Gigawords does the same, so just replace the attribute
	names in this hook. This has been updated to use 64 bit integers in order
    	to be more proof against overflows with large traffic.

checkOnlineSql.pl
	Script that checks that all the users in an SQL SessionDatabase are 
	still online, and delete the ones that arent. Uses a client
	table to determine Nas type etc.

nntp-redirect.pl 
        A Radius-enabled Net News NNTP port authenticator and
	accountor.  This program received NNTP connection requests,
	authenticates each one with Radius, and then forwards the
	connection to the real NNTP serer. It counts bytes in and out,
	and at the end of the NNTP session sends Radius accounting
	data counting the total news traffic in and out. This allows
	you to integrate NNTP authentication and accounting with the
	rest of your Radius services.  Reply attributes in the
	Access-Accept can be used to configure the NNTP server and
	port to redirect to, allowing per-user NNTP configuration via
	Radius.

nthash.pl
	Simple script to generate the {nthash} version of a password.
	Prints the resulting hash to stdout.
	Run like: 
	perl goodies/nthash.pl fred
	which will output:
	{nthash}DCB8E94AC7D0AADC8A81D9C895ACE5F4

edirectory.txt
	Documentation on how to install and configure Novell
	eDirectory and Radiator to interoperate.
	
edirectory.cfg
	Sample config file showing how to authenticate with Novell
	eDirectory LDAP server. Uses ServerChecksPassword and
	HoldServerConnection for best performance. 

edirectory_nmas.cfg
	Sample config file showing how to authenticate with Novell
	eDirectory LDAP server using NMAS (Novell Modular Authentication
	System) including Vasco Digipass NMAS. 
	
eap_edir_up.cfg
	Sample config file showing how to authenticate with Novell
	eDirectory LDAP server and Universal Password. Works with
	PAP, CHAP, MSCAHP, MSCHAPV2, EAP_TLS, EAP-TTLS-*, PEAP,
	EAP-MD5, LEAP etc.

radiator-ldap.ldif radiator-ldap.schema
       Sample LDAP schema and example data file for use with OpenLDAP
       and AuthBy LDAPRADIUS and AuthBy LDAPDIGIPASS. 

solaris-radiator.init
	Startup script for Solaris 8, 9 and 10. Install as
	/etc/init.d/radiator and check the other instructions at the
	top of the file. Also used as the statrtup file by the solaris package

solaris-radius.cfg
	Simple config file installed by the Solaris package

cacti_data_query_snmp_get_radius_information.xml radius_server.xml
	Configuration files to enable monitoring of Radiator by Cacti
	(http://www.cacti.net/), which is similar to MRTG, except it
	is web driven and based upon a templating system. Contributed
	by Chris Hills.

ntlm.cfg ntlm_eap_peap.cfg ntlm_eap_multi.cfg smb.conf.winbindd
	 Sample configuration files for using AuthBy NTLM, which
	 allows Radiator running on Linux and Unix to authenticate to
	 a Windows Domain Controller using the Samba ntlm_auth
	 utility. 

AuthRADIUSBYATTR.pm radiusbyattr.txt
         New AuthBy RADIUSBYATTR that forwards to a RADIUS server based whose
         attributes (host, secret etc) are specified in the request.
	 Useful for various specialised testing
         scenarios. radiusbyattr.txt is a description of how to
         configure and use it. Contributed by Miko.

au.com.open.radiator.plist
	Daemon configuration file for OSX 10.4 (Tiger).
	save this file in the folder "/Library/LaunchDaemons"/.  This example  
	assumes that radius.cfg is your config file, and it's located in /etc/ 
	radiator.  But you can change that easily.
	Radiator will be launched automatically at boot time and whenever  
	radiator dies or is killed.
	To start the service, issue the following command in a terminal  
	window (as root):
	launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/au.com.open.radiator.plist
	Top stop the service, use this command:
	launchctl unload /Library/LaunchDaemons/au.com.open.radiator.plist
	Contributed by Matt Richard.

radiator.ncf
	Radiator startup script for Novell NetWare 6.5, including
	hints and tips on how to install and configure Radiator on
	NetWare

sqliteCreate.sql
	Script for creating basic SQL tables for use with DBD::SQLite2
	dbish -batch dbi:SQLite2:dbname=/path/to/your/dbfile <goodies/sqliteCreate.sql
	where dbfile is the file where the database will be stored.
	Use with sample goodies/sql.cfg, and 
	DBSource	dbi:SQLite2:dbname=/path/to/your/dbfile

radiator.sh
	A Radiator startup script for FreeBSD and rc-ng. Contributed
	by Paul Dekkers.

eap_leap_proxy.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to use EAP_LEAP_MSCHAP_Convert
	forces all EAP-LEAP requests to be converted to conventional Radius
	MSCHAP requests that are redespatched, perhaps to be proxied to
	another non-LEAP capable Radius server or for local
	authentication.

calling_station_hook_requests.pl
	PostAuthHook for PEAP requests that:
	1) Insert the Calling-Station-ID into the inner request
	2) Insert the Called-Station-ID into the inner request
	3) Insert the "outer" EAP identity into the inner request as "Outer-EAP-Id"
	Contributed by Terry Simons.

sip.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how configure 
	SIP Express Router (SER) from www.iptel.org to do Radius 
	authentication of SIP VOIP connections, and to authenticate them with
	Radiator.

ser.cfg
	Example configuration file for SIP Express Router (SER) from
	www.iptel.org to to RADIUS authentication. THIS IS NOT A RADIATOR
	CONFIGURATION FILE: IT IS AN SER CONFIGURATION FILE.

dnsroam.cfg dnsroam.txt
	Example Radiator configuration file and documentation showing how to
	configure Radiator and the Resolver and AuthBy DNSROAM clauses to find
	Radius servers using DNS (the Domain Name Service). DNSROAM can find
	Radius and RadSec servers in IPV4 and IPV6 using NAPTR, SRV, A and
	AAAA records.
	Radiator 

safeword.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file and documentation showing how to
	configure Radiator to authenticate from a SafeWord Premier Access
	server.
	Supports PAP, CHAP, TTLS-PAP, EAP-OTP and EAP-GTC.
	Supports password changing.
	Supports fixed (static) passwords and SafeWord Silver and Gold tokens.

eap_ttls_tnc.cfg osc_imv_policy.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file.
	This configuration file shows how to enable TNC support in Radiator.
	TNC is the Trusted Network Connect specification from Trusted Computing
	Group (https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TNC). 
	TNC allows 802.1X clients and Radiator to exchange integrity
	measurements so that the client only gets connected to the network if it
	meets the network administrators requirements for specific versions of
	software etc to be instaled on the client. Tested with xsupplicant 
	(http://open1x.sourceforge.net), the open
	source 802.1X supplicant, which also supports TNC. osc_imv_policy.cfg
	illustrates a basic policy for evaluating clients equipped with the
	OSC-IMC suplied with libtnc 1.19 and later.

radmin_otp_internode.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file showing how to do
	One-Time-Passwords delivered by SMS, using the Internode NodeText
	Gateway, a commercial SMS gateway available from Internode in
	Australia.  The NodeText Gateway is a high reliability, high
	performance SMS Gateway for Australian SMS numbers. Works with GSM,
	CDMA. Works with Telstra, Optus and Vodafone networks. Billing of SMS
	delivery charges can be to the sender, or the receiver. The Internode
	NodeText Gateway can also apply a range of special features, such as
	name to SMS number translation etc. Multiple recipients, message
	splitting etc are supported. They also offer an email-to-SMS gateway.
	This fully working example allows your users to be administered with
	Radmin, using One-Time-Passwords delivered to the user by SMS.

chillispot.txt chilli.conf chillispot.iptables chilli-radmin.cfg 
	Tutorial and config files for installing ChilliSpot, Radiator and
	RAdmin to provide a complete, locally administered captive portal
	wireless hotspot solution, including prepaid time for users, user
	statistics, monitoring etc. See http://www.chillispot.org
	CAUTION: The ChilliSpot project has been abandoned and taken over by
        the CoovaChilli project at http://coova.org
	This documentation is retained for historical reasons since
	configuration of CoovaChilli is similar.  For instructions on how to
	configure the CoovaAP hotspot see goodies/CoovaAP.txt

eap_psk.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to authenticate with EAP-PSK
	(Pre-Shared-Key)

eap_pax.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to authenticate with EAP-PAX
	(Password-Authenticated-Key)

fidelio.cfg fideliosim.pl fidelio.txt
	Sample configuration file showing how to authenticate from a
	Micros-Fidelio Property Management Systems (PMS). fideliosim.pl
	simulates a serial port Fidelio PMS with a small number of guests in
	its database, and can be used to test AuthBy FIDELIO.
	fidelio.txt is a general overview of the operation and capabilites of
	the Micros-Fidelio Opera support in Radiator.

diameter-server.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to authenticate Diameter requests
	received using ServerDIAMETER.

dictionary.sip.pre-rfc
	Old version of dictionary.sip that was valid before the release of RFC 4590.
	It complies with the original draft-sterman-aaa-sip-00.txt

cisco_li.txt
	Documentation on how to configure Radiator to use Cisco 
	RADIUS-Based Lawful Intercept as described in 
        http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/ps6566/products_feature_guide09186a008060de94.html

ldap-aps.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to authenticate users against
	native Apple Mac OSX using Apple Directory Server LDAP and Apple
	Password Server.

hashbalance.cfg
	Sample configuration file showing how to use AuthBy HASHBALANCE to
	load balance requests based on information in the incoming request to
	choose the preferred host, with the intention that all requests in a
	single EAP conversation will all go to the same target server,
	enabling EAP and other stateful RADIUS transactions to be loadbalanced
	without interfering with streams of related requests.  If the
	preferred host is not available try the following ones until all are
	exhausted.
	
digipassStatic.txt digipassStatic.cfg
        Sample config file and explanatory notes about how to use _both_ a 2
        factor token _and_ LDAP for authentication. 
	The users password has to consist of 6 digits of Digipass tokencode (no PIN) 
	followed by the static password for their LDAP database.
	
eap_acct_username.pl
	Some EAP protocols use outer identity only to locate a home RADIUS
	server and thus users use anonymous outer identity
	(anonymous@domain.tld or just @domain.tld as recommended by the RFC
	4282) This hook copies the inner username to the Access-Accept
	User-Name field so a NAS (Access Point) can provide accounting
	information with correct (inner) User-Name. Contributed by Rok PapeÇæ

presencesql.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file that allows you to
	authenticate from an SQL database, and also get presence data
	using special Access-Request with Service-Type=Call-Check-User

eap_fast.txt 
net-ssleay-1.32-session-ticket.patch
openssl-0.9.8d-session-ticket-osc.patch 
openssl-0.9.8e-session-ticket-osc.patch
openssl-0.9.8i-tls-extensions.patch
openssl-0.9.8i-tls-extensions-new.patch
openssl-0.9.9-session-ticket.patch
	Instructions and patch files requires to support EAP-FAST with
	transition versions of OpenSSL and
	Net-SSLeay. openssl-0.9.8i-tls-extensions.patch is required for
	Net-SSLeay-1.35. openssl-0.9.8i-tls-extensions-new.patch is used with
	Net-SSLeay-1.35 + latest patches from SVN or Net-SSLeay-1.36 or
	later. These are not required for OpenSSL 1.0 and later.

serverhttp.cfg
	 Example Radiator configuration file that shows how to configure
	 ServerHTTP, enabling a web interface for configuring, monitoring,
	 examining and restarting Radiator.

wimax.cfg wimax.sql wimaxtest
	Support files for configuring and testing AuthBy WIMAX. 
	wimaxtest is a simple test client,
	wimax.sql is a sample MySQL database definition that works with
	wimaxtest and wimax.cfg.

CoovaAP.txt
	Instructions on how to configure the CoovaAP WRT54G self-contained
	hotspot to authenticate against Radiator.

authhandler.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file that shows how to configure AuthBy
	HANDLER to quickly select a new handler to redirect a request to based
	on the Handler Identifier.
	
rsaam.cfg eap_peap_gtc_rsaam.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration files that shows how to authenticate
	against RSA Authentication Manager 7.1 and later. rsaam.cfg is a
	simple configuration that works with PAP and EAP-GTC. 
	eap_peap_gtc_rsaam.cfg works with PEAP-GTC.

rsaam_multi.cfg rsaam_multi_hook.pl
	Example Radiator configuration file and hook, showing how to support
	both RSA OnDemand and SecurID authentication for the same users.

macports.txt Portfile
	Instructions and Portfile for installing Radiator on MacOSX.
	Contributed by Mark Duling.

lancom-radsec.txt
	Instructions and hints for configuring a Lancom L-54g wireless Access
	Point to authenticate using an external RadSec server.

eap_radmin.cfg
	Example Radiator configuration file that shows how to configure
	Radiator to work with Radmin and honour authentication by 
	PAP, CHAP, MSCHAP, MSCHAPV2, PEAP-MSCHAPV2, TTLS-* etc.
	Also enables all other Radmin features, such as ClientListSQL,
	SessionDatabase etc.

ciscovpn.txt
	Description and solution for problems with DIGIPASS tokens and some Cisco
	VPN products. 

eapbalance.cfg
	Sample configu file that shows how to build a high performance load
	balancing front end that handles FarmSize server farms and
	multi-packet EAP requests. Suitable for use with EAP systems on
	multi-core or multi-proicessor hosts.

tacplus.txt
	Some guidance on configuring Radiator for TACACS+ authentication.

addnthashprefix.txt
	Hook and some documentation for a hook to add a prefix of
	"{nthash}" to the password string returned from an LDAP database.

n7k-users n7k-radius.cfg n7k-config n7k-debug
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, Cisco Nexus 7000 and sample
	debug file, showing how to set up RBAC - Role-Based Access  
	Control on the  Cisco Nexus 7000. Contributed by Matthew Nichols. 

yubikey.cfg yubikey.txt db_schema.sql
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to authenticate
	Yubikey (yubico.com) USB one-time-password tokens with an SQL
	database (schema included).
	Yubikeys are USB tokens that produce a one-time-password when you press the button 
	on the token. The token emulates a keybourd, so its very easy for users to use: 
	just put the keyboard cursor in the field that needs the one-time-password, 
	and press the button. Works on Windows, Unix and MAC OSX, and probably
	others.
	Can be expected to work with most wired and wireless EAP supplicants
	as well as many other type of RADIUS authentication clients.

yubikey-validationserver.cfg
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to authenticate
	against Yubikey Validation server utilising YubiHSM.

hotp.cfg hotp.sql
	 Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to authenticate
	 using HOTP (RFC 4226) one-time-passwords. The sample mysql database
	 schema hotp.sql provides 2 test users, one with a PIN and one
	 without. Setup and test details are in hotp.cfg

rejectproxycfg
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how 
	to proxy a request to a remote server and if that is rejected
	proxy to a different server.	 

motp.cfg motp.sql
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how 
	to authenticate using MOTP http://motp.sourceforge.net. Sample SQL schema

crypto-mas.cfg
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to proxy
	requests to the Cryptocard MAS (Managed Authentication Service)
	CRYPTO-MAS. See http://www.cryptocard.com/

wikid.cfg
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to proxy
	requests to the WiKID (http://www.wikidsystems.com/)
	Strong Authentication RADIUS Server.

securemetricotpserver.cfg securemetricotpserver.txt
        Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how to proxy
	requests to the SecureMetric SecureOTP RADIUS Server. Also detail
        installation instruciotns for the SecureOTP Server and RADIUS Server.

fidelio-hotspot.sql fidelio-hotspot.cfg
	sample Radiator configuration, showing how to build a WiFi
	hotspot with AuthBy FIDELIOHOTSPOT and, for example MikroTik
	(www.mikrotik.com) hotspot and captive portal, which
	authenticates against Micros-Fidelio Opera hotel management
	system, and permits the user to purchase WiFi internet access
	in blocks of 24 hours which are billed to the user's room
	through Opera. Example works with MySQL as a session database
	(schema included), but other databases can be supported.  Also
	supports prepaid services, such as bandwidth plans that are
	billed through Opera.

mera-mvts.txt
	Documentation briefly outlines the requirements for interfacing Radiator with
	Mera MVTS Pro VOIP gateways, along with examples of the types of requests and
	replies Radiator can be expected to handle when interfacing with MVTS Pro.

lookupauthgroup.pl
	Sample PostSearchHook for AuthBy LDAP2, which finds user group(s)
	through an LDAP lookup, then finds corresponding check and reply
	attributes in SQL, based on the user group(s) for that user and the
	device groups of the RADIUS/TACACS+ client. This allows you to have a
	add very fine grained authentication/authorisation in an LDAP/SQL
	environment, based on user and device group membership.

cisco-vpn.txt
	Short description on how to configure Cisco VPN 3000 Concentrator VPN
	groups, and the limitations thereof.

createavpairs.pl
	This hook converts all cisco-avpairs in the request
 	into equivalent private RADIUS attributes, that can be stored to
 	different SQL columns based on the private RADIUS attribute name.

radminTacacs.cfg
	Sample RAdmin configuration file that shows how to record Tacacs+ commands to the Radmin
	RADCOMMANDAUDIT table for auditing

freeswitch.txt
	A brief discussion about how to integrate FreeSwitch with Radiator.
	FreeSWITCH is a powerful and versatile telephony platform that can scale from
	a softphone to a PBX and even to a carrier-class softswitch.

rpt.pl 
       radiator packet tracer - Bart Dumon - bartdu(at)bsp(dot)scarlet(dot)
       match anything in request packet(s), shows corresponding response packet(s)
       requires a <monitor> clause, cfr section 5.91 of the Radiator manual

radiusgina.txt
       Brief introduction to RadiusGINA, a Windows RADIUS login authenticator from LSE
       http://lsexperts.de

sha.pl ssha.pl
       Simple perl scripts to generate SHA and SSHA hashes of the first
       command line argument. Useful for generating SHA and SSHA hashed
       passwords in the form Radiator honours.
       sha.pl takes the plaintext password as the first command line argument.
       ssha.pl takes the plaintext password as the first command line argument
       sha.pl plaintextpassword
       ssha.pl plaintextpassword

freeswitch-fidelio.txt freeswitch-fidelio.pl freeswitch-fidelio.cfg
       Documentation and sample scripts for how to use Radiator and the AuthBy FIDELIO module to
       handle authentication and accounting for the Freeswitch VOIP switch
       (http://www.freeswitch.org). It can be used authenticate and to bill VOIP
       calls to a Micros-Fidelio Opera Hotel Property Management System
       (http://www.micros.com).

sqlauthby.cfg
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to use the AuthBy
       SQLAUTHBY clause. This example looks up how to authenticate each user
       based on information in an SQL database. The columns retrieved from SQL
       are used to create an AuthBy clause that will actually handle the request.

pwaframedip.pl pwasessions.schema.sql
       This hook fixes a problem with Enterasys switches where Framed-IP-Address
       is not included in accounting packets, but the information is available via
       SNMP when for Enterasys captive-portal (PWA) authentication.
       Contributed by Ben Carbery.

hotp.cfg hotp.sql
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how 
	to authenticate using HOTP (RFC 4226). Sample SQL schema

totp.cfg totp.sql
	Sample configuration file for Radiator, showing how 
	to authenticate using TOTP (RFC 6238). Sample SQL schema

hextobase32.pl
       Script to help with entering HOTP and TOTP codes to Google
       Authenticator. Converts hex codes to base 32.

generate-totp.pl
       Simple script for generating secret values for TOTP and printing
       them in different text formats and as QR code images.

ratelimit.cfg
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to use the AuthBy
       RATELIMIT clause to limit the maximum number of requests per second.

radiusd.conf
       Upstart script for Debian/Ubuntu.
       It should be placed into /etc/init, and named <JOBNAME>.conf.
       I suggest "/etc/init/radiusd.conf".
       Contributed by Adam Thompson <athompso@athompso.net>

eap_pwd.cfg Crypt-OpenSSL-Bignum-0.04-mikem.patch
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to configure and
       test EAP-PWD authentication on Linux and Unix.
       Patch file is to add necessary functions to Crypt-OpenSSL-Bignum-0.04.
       
sip2.cfg	
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to configure and
       test authenticating against a 3M SIP (Standard Interchange Protocol) version 2.00 
       as used in many book libraries.

sip2hook.pl
       An example SIP2Hook showing how to authorise users based on
       SIP2 response messages.

snmp.cfg
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to configure and
       test SNMPAgent and use it to query data from Radiator by SNMP.

heimdaldigest.cfg heimdal.txt
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to configure and test
       authentication against Heimdal Kerberos.

duo.cfg duosim.pl
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to configure and
       test authenticating against Duo Security 2-factor
       authentication. duosim.pl implements partially Duo Auth API for
       the purposes of testing the AuthBy DUO module.

diameter-authby.cfg
       Sample Radiator configuration file showing how to proxy RADIUS
       messages to DIAMETER server based on RFC 4005.

dictionary.merit
       Contains Merit attributes 145-150,155 and 209-223 that were listed
       in the main dictionary and conflict with old Ascend codes and IANA
       Radius Attribute Types. If you still need these attributes, see the
       file for more information.

dictionary.starent-vsa1
       Contains Starent VSAs that use 1 byte for type and 1 byte for
       length. The main Radiator dictionary uses 2 bytes for type and
       length. When this dictionary is loaded after the main
       dictionary, the Starent VSAs will be encoded and decoded using
       1 byte for both type and length.

pbkdf2.pl
       Simple perl script to generate PBKDF2 derived keys of the first
       command line argument. Useful for generating PBKDF2 derived
       passwords in the form Radiator honours.

radiator.service
       Startup file for systemd.
